# For developers

## Building the documentation locally

### Setup the docs folder environment

We assume that your terminal is located in the root folder of the GalerkingToolkit.jl repo.
Open Julia, pointing to the `docs` folder.

```bash
$ julia --project=docs/
```

Develop your current copy of GalerkingToolkit.

```julia
julia> ]
(docs) pkg> dev .
```
You will need to do this each time the dependencies of the documentation or of GalerkinToolkit change.

### Standard build


After the setup, exit package mode and run
```julia
julia> include("docs/make.jl")
```

This will take a while. When it is done, you will have the html docs in the folder `docs/build`.

### Visualizing the documentation

The easiest way to visualize the documentation is using `LiveServer` as follows.

```julia
julia> using LiveServer
serve(dir="docs/build/")
```

After it, your docs will be served at the given url.

If nor yet done, you can install `LiveServer` as follows. We recommend to install it in your global environment.

```julia
julia> ]
pkg> activate
pgk> add LiveServer
```


### Quick build

The standard build takes a long time since it runs several examples.
This delay makes this approach impractical to write documentation,
since one needs to build the docs often to check the
final result.

To avoid this, one can run all the files in `docs/src/src_jl` in advance using

```julia
julia> include("docs/make_media.jl")
```

and then one can quickly build the documentation with

```julia
julia> include("docs/make_with_media.jl")
```

This will work as long as you are not including new figures or animations that are generated by running the files
in the `docs/src/src_jl` folder. Otherwise you will need to run the particular file with


```julia
julia> include("docs/src/src_jl/<file that generates the figure>.jl")
```

or running again

```julia
julia> include("docs/media.jl")
```

The output documentation is not exactly the same as the generated with the standard build method, but it is good enough for development.

## Automated documentation build

The documentation is built automatically using two GitHub Actions workflows:
1. [docsmedia](.github/workflows/build_media.yml) to build the figures
2. [docs_no_media](.github/workflows/CI.yml) to build the documentation, after the figures have been built

Due to the very long time needed to build the figures, the output of step 1 is stored in a cache with key `docs-media-cache`. This step must either be tiggered manually (via workflow dispatch) if a rebuild is necessary, or it should run automatically once a week (Monday, midnight).

Step 2 is a much faster workflow and is triggered automatically upon each push. It will fail under two conditions:
1. If the `docs-media-cache` does not exist
2. If there have been new code examples added, such that there is no corresponding image in the cache.

In either case, you should trigger the `docsmedia` job to rebuild the cache, and then rerun the `docs_no_media` job.

## Performance Benchmarks

There is a benchmark suite defined in `GalerkinToolkitExamples/benchmarks`. This uses [BenchmarkTools.jl](https://github.com/JuliaCI/BenchmarkTools.jl) to perform the timings
and [github-action-benchmark](https://github.com/benchmark-action/github-action-benchmark) to collect the results and store them in the `benchmarks` branch. Upon merging of a PR, and after the docs have built, the benchmark results are copied from the `benchmarks` branch into the `gh-pages` branch. This is required to prevent overwriting of the previous results by docs deployment etc.

Graphs of performance changes over time (per commit hash) can then be viewed here: <https://galerkintoolkit.github.io/GalerkinToolkit.jl/dev/bench/>.

The github action can be configured (in `.github/workflows/CI.yml`, job `benchmark`) to fail if the performance change is beyond a given threshold. Look for the `alert-threshold:` and `fail-on-alert:` keys.

More benchmarks can be added (or existing ones modified) in `GalerkinToolkitExamples/benchmarks/run_benchmarks.jl`.



